Make context propagation requirements explict (#22)
dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification: specification/trace/semantic_conventions/messaging.md

Given these definitions, the remainder of this section describes the semantic conventions for Spans describing interactions with messaging systems.

> ### Context propagation

Author: I added this new section at the top, since I believe this is an important topic for whoever is consuming this document.

Given these definitions, the remainder of this section describes the semantic conventions for Spans describing interactions with messaging systems.

### Context propagation

> A message may pass many different components and layers in one or more intermediaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message may traverse many different components and layers in one or more intermediaries
```

when it is propagated from the producer to the consumer(s). To be able to correlate
consumer traces with producer traces using the existing context propagation mechanisms,
all components must propagate context down the chain.

> This imposes a difficulty because it cannot be assumed, and in many cases,

Reviewer: This is a very long and nested sentence. It's a bit hard to follow for me. I'd prefer having more, but shorter sentences.

Author: I agree. What you think about this:

```
This imposes a difficulty because it requires that all components are instrumented
and propagate context according to OpenTelemetry requirements. In reality,
this cannot be assumed, and in many cases is not even desired nor possible.
```

Author: Or 

```
This imposes a requirement that all components are instrumented
and propagate context according to OpenTelemetry requirements. In reality,
this cannot be assumed, and in many cases is not even desired nor possible.
```

Author: Went with the last in [4d89927](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22/commits/4d89927be29348fe8a06aee2193b170a3b6e7fc1). Let me know if it's better!

Reviewer: Started a new conversation in https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22#discussion_r951387777. Still feels a bit clunky to me.

> it is not even desired, that all components and layers to be instrumented and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is not even desired, that all components and layers are instrumented and
```

propagate context according to OpenTelemetry requirements.

To be able to correlate consumer traces with producer traces without requiring
intermediary instrumentation, the context needs to be propagated on a
*per-message* basis instead of on a *per-request* basis. This allows all components
to have access to the same per-message context information, making it possible

> to correlate all the stages involved in processing a message with the message's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to correlate all stages involved in processing a message with the message's
```

creation.

> A message *creation context* allows correlating producer with consumer(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message *creation context* allows correlating producers with consumers
```
or 
```suggestion
A message *creation context* allows correlating a producer with one or more consumers
```

of a message and model the dependencies between them,
regardless of the underlying messaging transport mechanism and its instrumentation.

The message creation context is created by the producer and should be propagated
to the consumer(s). Producer and consumer applications should be instrumented
in a way so that the creation context is attached to messages and extracted

> from messages in a coordinated way.

Reviewer: What does that mean? Do you mean a standardized way?

Author: I think what the original author of OTEP wanted to say is that producers and consumers must attach/extract the context at certain "points" during the message lifetime, in order to create a meaningful trace. For ex, producer would attach the context before sending, and a consumer would extract it upon receiving.. thus in a "coordinated" way.

Author: I think I will remove this section: "Producer and consumer applications should be instrumented in a way [...]". It doesn't add any value and the exact way this will work is what the group is working on to define right now.

Author: Done [6c0c7c7](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22/commits/6c0c7c7b87a932d080561174c0a3141642373953)

> If the message creation context cannot be attached to the message and propagated,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the message creation context cannot be attached and propagated with the message
```

Reviewer: I would flip the halves of the sentence around: 
`Consumer traces cannot be directly correlated to producer traces if the message creation context cannot be attached and propagated with the message.

Author: Thanks, that's much better indeed!

consumer traces cannot be directly correlated to producer traces.

A producer SHOULD attach a message creation context to each message.

> The message creation context SHOULD be attached in a way so that it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message creation context SHOULD be attached in such a way that it is
```

not possible to be changed by intermediaries.

> This document does not specify the exact mechanisms on how the creation context

> is attached/extracted to/from messages. Future versions of these conventions

Reviewer: I am not sure what the standard is on OTEL, do you prefix every line in a note with `>`? It doesn't change the rendered version, I think. Did you run `markdownlint`?

Author: Good question. I always use `>` on the first line. Markdown lint didn't complain as well.

Author: I looked, it seems it's every line is prefixed in the examples I found. Changed in [4d89927](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22/commits/4d89927be29348fe8a06aee2193b170a3b6e7fc1)

> will give clear recommendations, following industry standards such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will give clear recommendations, following industry standards including, but not limited to
```
Either is fine though, I think

Given these definitions, the remainder of this section describes the semantic conventions for Spans describing interactions with messaging systems.

### Context propagation

A message may traverse many different components and layers in one or more intermediaries
when it is propagated from the producer to the consumer(s). To be able to correlate
consumer traces with producer traces using the existing context propagation mechanisms,
all components must propagate context down the chain.

This imposes a requirement that all components are instrumented
and propagate context according to OpenTelemetry requirements. In reality,

> this cannot be assumed, and in many cases is not even desired or possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this cannot be assumed, and in many cases is not desired or possible.
```

Author: Removed this sentence so not necessary anymore [16bbdc7](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22/commits/16bbdc7d4447813da7e3209cd47437700fcd4a65)

### Context propagation

A message may traverse many different components and layers in one or more intermediaries
when it is propagated from the producer to the consumer(s). To be able to correlate
consumer traces with producer traces using the existing context propagation mechanisms,
all components must propagate context down the chain.

> This imposes a requirement that all components are instrumented

Reviewer: I am reluctant about the `This` here. You can't read this paragraph without the one before it. Maybe something like: The anatomy of systems relying on messaging imposes a requirement...?

Also imposes a *requirement* ... according to OpenTelemetry *requirements*.

Author: Agreed. I changed it in [16bbdc7](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification/pull/22/commits/16bbdc7d4447813da7e3209cd47437700fcd4a65).
